# ASLB
Academia Sinica lattice Boltzmann code is based on the Susp3d code by Tony Ladd in 2003.  
Our additions to it are the bead-fluid coupling and particle molecular dynamics. 

This code combines the lattice Boltzmann method with coarse-grained MD of
polymers following the methods of Ahlrichs and Duenweg, JCP, 1999.  We have
added the coarse-grained particle model developed and Hsu and Chen 2010.
The code has been implemented by Chia-Wei Hsu and Yeng-Long Chen, 2010-2012.

In 2012, YLC coded the initialization and forces for deformable boundaries. 

Deformable particles are created by starting with the icosahedron and grow up
to n levels.  The vertices are beads that are connected by the edges using
either FENE or harmonic springs with the spring modulus Hfene.  Beads interact with each other via the
Weeks-Chandler-Andersen potential (non-neighbors only for harmonic springs).
A bending energy is added to neighboring faces by determining the angle
between face-normal vectors, with the modulus kbend.  Volume and surface area are constrained with a
penalties for deviating from predetermined V0 and A0 (found for particles at
the equilibrium shape).  

There is a known competition between kbend and Hfene that affects the particle
shape.  If the bending is weak, i.e. smaller than Hfene, than the particle
shape tends to be buckled (i.e. the icosahedron vertices point out).  If the
bending is stronger than Hfene, then the particle surface smoothes.  

The typical parameter values used are Hfene=30, Kbend = 100, KV=100, KA =
100000.  

These are parameters that can be chosen to match to real measurements of a cell
elastic and bending modulus, isobaric compressibility, and surface area
dilatation modulus.  

In addition, thermal fluctuations are added to both the fluid and the
particles.  kT is the thermal energy.  fric is the friction coefficient /
rho_fluid.  (kT / (fric*Rho)) is the bead diffusivity. 

For the deformable boundaries, the tube configuration is arbitrary and can be
defined in init_cylinder.c. 

spring_type = 0 means the bead is tied to its initial position by a spring. 

init = 1 is a cylinderical tube with diameter varying sinusoidally about the
average height.  rad_amp defined the oscillation amplitude and rad_period
defines the oscillation period. If the max_x > rad_period, the (max_x -
rad_period) is the length of a cylindrical tube in the center.  
For init = 1, max_y and max_z should be even numbers, so that the tube center
will be off-lattice.  There is an issue with fluid leakage if the tube
boundaries are on-lattice.   


init = 2 is a contracting slit that goes into a central channel.  rad_amp is
the contraction angle (measured from the slit-channel intersection) and
rad_period is the channel length.  

For DP going through a small constriction, it is important to monitor the
volume and area changes and vary KV and KA accordingly.  

